basically to deploy an application we have 3 different environments
1. physical server
2. Virtual machine
3. container

Generic steps steps to deploy an application:
Whenever we go for a deployment process, we shutdown the server, remove all active connections, drain out the older version
and move the updated version of the application and restart the server.
1.shutting down your tomcat server
2.cleaning any deployment directories i.e removing old artifacts
3.defining a rollback point
4.deploying the new version of your app
5.restarting the server



Lets discuss four major deployment types:
During a deployment process, your service is responsive the whole time, means that no requests are dropped at any point during the
deployment process i.e Zero Down-Time or less down-time with 15min or Minimize the downtime as much as possible.
https://dzone.com/articles/docker-amp-continuous-delivery-deployment-types
1.Minimum In-Service deployment
       If we have 5 containers each running our current application A, then we set our policy to keep a minimum in-service number of 2.
       We take 3 servers offline to update them to our new version B. Once these are completed and back online, we can update the
       remaining 2.
2.Rolling application updates
       We have the same 5 containers as before, but this time we initialize rolling updates by specifying the number of containers
       that may be updated simultaneously, e.g. 2. The process moves updates through 2 containers at a time until all the servers
       in the series are updated.
       Note: Docker Swarm supports rolling updates out the box; the default is to update one container at a time. To modify this
       use the –update-parallelism setting
3.Blue/Green deployment
Q.What Is Blue-Green Deployment?
A.1.Blue-green deployment is an important technique to minimise/reduce the service downtime when deploying codebase changes to production
    by running two identical production environments called Blue and Green.
  2.With this technique, a software will be deployed to two different production environments with identical configurations
    called blue and green
  3.lets assume the active environment is blue and the idle environment is green.   
  4.At any time, only one of them will be alive and serving requests in production while the other is idle and used as failover.
  4.when you whish to release new version of the software,you can deploy it to the idle green environment first. once the software
    is ensured to be working properly in green, you can switch your routing to point to green instead of blue.
    This act of host-swapping environments after deployment can cause much shorter downtime as compared to simply deploying new version
    to a shared single environment
4.A/B testing


Common Issues, while deploying a software change to production:
1.I once accidentally deleted a bin folder from a .NET application in one of four servers when deploying a change. The site was working 
  not continuously or steadily, as a consequence, so I had to check all the servers again to find the one that was having problems.
  Luckily for me, there were only four servers.
  
  
Best ways to smoothly deploy an application to production without risking quality:
1. write a script to do deployments, Then I test the script locally and in the development environment. That way, next time I want to
   deploy a change, I won't have to worry about missing any steps like creating a folder or giving permissions to some files. I'll just
   need to run the script again.
2. We an have New tools has emerged like Terraform, Ansible, and Jenkins
3. Build and Pack Your Application Only Once Like Docker



Q.what is horizental scaling and vertical scaling?
A.Horizontal scaling means that you scale by adding more machines(like autoscaling) into your pool of resources whereas 
  Vertical scaling means that you scale by adding more power (CPU, RAM) to an existing machine.

